# Day 6 of Summer Internship

*Date: June 10th, 2019*

Right after entering the office, I approached my head regarding the server that I had asked for.
And surely enough, within 10 mins, I had my server with me.
I mean, through SSH, not physically obviously. Its a server. Its there with you everywhere everytime but not physically, much like a god.

But my god here was a very basic and bare one, almost new born.
So I had to install everything like man, vim (yet to personalise it), git, tmux, pip3 and the packages of python that I want to use.
Now I had to, for the first time, push my git repo to a personal remote server. And I did it [like that](https://hacksd.wordpress.com/2019/06/10/git-ssh-private-collaboration/).

I was alone today as both of my friends were absent (and doesn't looks like they will be back soon). So for the first time, I had lunch with the senior employees here (I will usually have lunch with my friends), which is good step in making contact I guess.

After the lunch, I sat again with my bugged code. I tried to find solutions to the UnicodeDecodeError.
Not able to find anything relevant, I just decided to open the files in their given encoding. Luckily, all the files were encoded in [ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII) so I just passed "encoding="us-ascii"" as an argument to the open() method. 
But that too gave similar error:

	UnicodeDecodeError: 'ascii' codec can't decode byte 0xc4 in position 16: ordinal not in range(128)

Then I tried reading the test mails. And surprisingly, the opened correctly. So assuming that there is that 1 file with some strange characters in those 720 training mails, I used exception handling to [bypass](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python3/python_pass_statement.htm) the error. 

Then there came a [RunTime error](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#RuntimeError). The logic selecting the useful keywords was incorrect. It tried to change the loop-control at runtime and python did not allowed this. So I modified the logic so that instead of modifying the loop-control variable, it would work with different variable.

After that, a new error came along:

	ValueError: Found input variables with inconsistent numbers of samples: [703, 702]

We had 702 training emails, but the code was somehow reading more emails than that. Tired by that time, I decided to leave this error for tomorrow.

During all this debugging process, I was irritated how everytime flak8 would pop up giving me advices to properly format the code. So before wrapping things up, I did all the formatting in one shot. It was basically all give space there and remove space from there. But it does helps your code look beautiful. So its like a makeup with flake8 being the makeup artist and vim being the parlour.

Side Note: A special thanks to the 813 songs/music in my phone (60:42:14 hours if you wondered) that kept me company the whole day!!! :-)

