# Day 2 of Summer Internship

*Date: June 4th, 2019*

Not much happened today. My time was utilised in trying to fix a pen-drive that was opening in read-only mode, writing yesterday's blog (which I couldn't write because I slept early) and discussing stuff with my new colleagues.
I would like to share the discussions here as you probably need a "company" environment to participate in such discussions:

## Interview Questions

This discussion (almost debate) happened between me, my newly found friend from yesterday and our HR. With me having the least experience of all of us, I almost just observed the discussion with occasionally presenting my views.
Some of the important points discussed were:

1. __**"What are your hobbies?"**__: The HR was of the view that this question is pretty much useless in a technical interview. I pointed out that its purpose could be to socialize with the interviewee while my friend said that it could be to test your presence of mind.
One thing that the HR mentioned, and my friend, agreed was that you should always be well informed about the thing that you are mentioning as your hobby because an interviewer will most certainly dig deeper into the hobby (even if he himself has no knowledge of it) to find out the correctness of your answer and thus finding the honesty in you. Many people fall into this trap by mentioning "reading book" as a hobby.

2. __**Define "Hobby". (10 marks)"**__: We debated on what should be called a hobby and what should not be. Should a hobby be always productive? Is a completely pleasure oriented activity, like watching movies or surfing social media, a hobby? Is listening to music while working a hobby? What about sleeping? Well we never found out.

3. __**"Why should I hire you?"**__: This again is a very popular question that we all agreed is stupid if the company itself has put up "Hiring" or "Need an employee" adds everywhere. We know we are supposed to sell ourselves here, but only if we have approached for a job on our own. Why should I hire you? Cause **you** freaking asked for it.

4. __**Group Discussion**__: We discussed how GDs are a good way to test a person's adaptability and presence of mind (by asking him to say for the point once and then against it) and teamwork. But these days, GDs are just about dominating the group, which is wrong.

## Plans for tomorrow

Today I also got to know that my training is my self-oriented where I am supposed to approach my head and get topics to learn/tasks to complete, then do it on my own and report back.
I will not be under any particular time restrictions and any such constraints.
This suites me as I get to work on other projects in my hand parallel to my training.

So tomorrow, first thing in the morning is I will approach my head and get the things I need to do.
